---
title: Nov 28th, 2022
tags:
categories:
date: 2022-11-28
lastMod: 2022-11-28
---
Accountability Calls are key

Walk away with knowledge assets: daily post, short article, article at end of month

Explanation effect

learning with intention to teach (gaps in knowledge)

teaching reveals gaps in knowledge

Eplaining - meta perspective 2 or 3 times / Multiple exposures (naturally)

"I prefer appraches where what I happens naturally prefered to forcing it" Simmons #quote

Interseection between learning and teaching - giving of knowledge is naturally abundant

Mastery by Robert Greene #books

Sapiens, Yuval Harari #books

Picking a topic

"Material over Method", Ladder quote

Rare, bet of all time,

Filters

Goals: what will help me accomplish my # 1 goal

Models: which are the most usefil and universal

Opportinity: What are the time-sensitive emergent once-in-a-lifetime opportunities

Curiosity: what are you most excited to learn ** This section has direct correlation with my work. Rewatch and expand notes. #Inbox

More fun - kid in a candy store (baby learn on our own)

You don't choose your passions. Your passions choose you. Jeff Bezos #quote

Makes you work harder and longer (academic articles) [smart working enviornments quote] Neal etal, #quote #inbox

Helps you get more from each learning session

Curiosity is contagious

Research on Passion and Performance: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BB_y0iX-mzo12Mrqp9Ts9aqCw1yzWfySX0HrXVjoKls/edit# #Inbox

Curiosity is fragile

"Why Greatness cannot be planned" - Find book thesis - Top 10 for Simmons #books

Focus on Novelty

The maze Study -innovator, trying things out

**Follow the curiousity**

Steve Jobs quote .. connect dots. #quote

Create a curiosity list (multiple times in life)  #tool #books #task #workbook

How to think like Leanardo Da Vinci

Write down 100 questions as they come to mind

don't pick up your pen from the paper

noticw the top themes of the questions

apply 80/20ruls

Lindy Effect / Lindy Curiousity #filter

the future life expectency is proportional to their current age, so that every additional period of survival imples a longer remaining life expectancy.

Find the curiosities that have been around for a long time

Which ones have to been curious about for 10+ years? (learning, thinking, writing - simmons)

Goal curiosity - which is on a direct path to a life changing goal #filter

Matches: excitement, Lindy & Goal #filter

Art of Learning, Josh Waitzkin #books

Some people in this group are very interested in music / sound therapy #insight

Question: How can motivation be retained and improved when in fundamental wellbeing #topic

What is motivation?

What is fundamental wellbeing?

What are people's experiences of motivation when in fundamental wellbeing?

What are the core attributes of motivation both with and without fundamental wellbeing?

Why would want to be motivated?  Motivation, it's turtles all the way down - what is the turtle standing on? Core entropy as the arrow of time moves forward.

What  ways to motivate ourselves other than avoidance of pain?

Is there a fundamental rightness / necessity to the world that we should be striving for (goal oriented vs. exploration oriented from above)

Who can I talk to about motivation that also has experience with fundamental wellbeing?

Hell ya or Hell no - don't settle #insight

Where are you getting stuck related to topic selection #task

Facebook group introduction #task








