---
title: Nov 27th, 2022
tags:
categories:
date: 2022-11-28
lastMod: 2022-11-28
---
Tips

Get Specific as possible

Skill/Topic -> Subskill -> Microskill (think of it as a skill tree)

High Value, that you're excited about, has the highest leverage

You can Pivot if you change your mind.

Pick rare and valuable

Use your gut instinct once you have a short-list

How excited are you about your micro-topic on a scale of 1-10 - want to binge on it?

How valuable do you think this is from a 1-10?

List 10 things you're most excited about within the topic. Why are you doing this? When others get involved it becomes more exciting.

Note: Make abstract topics concrete and paradigm shifting

Support skills vs. topic skills

**Make a list of topics you're most interested in** #tools

Could go broad - 1 per day on a different topic, or go deep on one of those. What criteria would you use to narrow down on those?

Topic, [probability], [impact], [excitement],[monetizeable], [rarity - something that hasn't been written about a lot, that I can add something unique], [value], [Goals - how much does it help you accomplish a goal] [Foundational] [long term - more valuable in 10 years]m [time sensitive opportunity]- Total

1. List all of the topics
2. List the criteria that you would use to select one
3. Rate each one on a 1-10
4. Tally them up
5. Use gut instinct to make a decision



Clarity

Who is your target market?

What result do you want for them? Humility, compassion, tolerance

Go deep on one book?

Digital Garden

Topic summary / Person Summary / Book Summary

How other people have curated information.



Pre-Mortem

The date is Jan 1, the challenge has been a failure for you. Knowing yourself, what caused that failure?

Topic: Too broad, complex, vast - I could never commit to a topic

I got behind (other things got in the way)and stopped showing up

I felt that everyone else was doing better than I was. I became embarrassed.

Energy: Too fast in the beginning, super tired very morning

Commitments: Distracted / overwhelming

Not ready to post / perfection

Overwhelming force:

Time blocking

Accountability

Social pressure

public commitment

Remembering the reason why

Introduce yourself #mtm_task

Topic: What topic did you choose and why?

Why: Why did you choose to take the challenge?

Goal: What's you're # 1  goal? Why is it important

Brag: What's a brag about yourself? (accomplishment)

Support: Biggest area where you're looking for supprt







[[Month To Mastery]] Topic Samples

Digitization (foundational) - second order effect of digitization

Moore's Law (foundational)

Consumer AR

Become a Futurist

Gamification

Learning How to Learn

Skill Selection

Developing Mental Models

80/20 Model

Artificial Intelligence (AI)

Analytics

Developing Clarity of Vision

Writing

Creating Titles

Finding Visuals

Actual Writing

Editing

Research

Risk Management

Monetary System reform

Communication

Email Persuasion

Coaching

Teaching

Quantum Computing

Nuclear Fusion

Climat Change



[[Month To Mastery]] Topics #mtm_topic

Affiliate Marketing

**Building & Monetizing Digital Gardens**

AI

Co Pilot

[[Professional Maintainers]] How to become a professional maintainer and be compensated for it

Long Covid - ME/CFS

Blockchain

Green Crypto

Integral Endeavors

Conscious Business

Life Hacking

The Aligned Lifestyle (break it down)

Fundamental Wellbeing

Fundamental Wellbeing and Ketamine

**Motivation** in Fundamental wellbeing

willpower

Procrastination and Resistance

Metaverse

Business Incubators

Knowledge Management

Second brain

Monetizing a digital garden (logseq)

Personal Productivity

Ethereum / Smart Contracts

Dating

Jeffery Martin
